These are the travels undertaken by Rabbi Petachia, who travelled through all the countries.
He set out from Prague, which is in Bohemia, going to Poland, from Poland to Kieff in Russia, and from Russia he went in six days to the river DniepeR. On the other side of the river he commenced his travels in the land of Kedar.1
They have no ships, but sew together ten extended horse hides, and a thong on the border round; they then seat themselves on the hides, placing there also the waggons and all luggage.
They then tie the thong, on the border of the hides, to the tails of the horses, which swim, and thus they pass over the wateR. They eat no bread in the land of Kedar, but rice and millet boiled in milk, as well as milk and cheese.
They also put pieces of flesh under the saddle of a horse, which they ride, and, urging on the animal, cause it to sweat.
The flesh getting warm, they eat it.
They only travel in the land of Kedar under escort.
This is the manner in which the sons of Kedar pledge their faith to each otheR. One thrusts a needle into his finger, and invites the intended companion of his journey to swallow the blood of the wounded fingeR. He then becomes, with the person, as it were the same blood and flesh.
There is also another mode of taking an oath.
They fill a vessel of cast copper of the shape of a human face, then the traveller and his escorter drink thereout, after which he never proves faithless to him.
They have no king, but only princes and (noble) families.
Rabbi Petachia passed through the land of Kedar in its breadth in sixteen days.
The inhabitants live in tents, they are far-sighted, and have beautiful eyes, because they eat no salt and enjoy fragrant plants.
They are good archers, bringing down the bird whilst on the wing.
They perceive and recognise (objects) at more than a day’s distance.
There are are no mountains in their country, but all is level.
And a day’s journey behind the land of Kedar extends a gulf2 intervening between the land of Kedar and the land of Chazaria.3
There it is customary for women the whole day and night to bemoan and lament their deceased fathers and mothers.
This they continue until any of their sons or daughters or other members of the family die, and the last lament those that preceded them in death.
They teach their daughters' lamentations.
In the night they groan and howl.
The dogs also whine and bark at their voice.
He then travelled about eight days, and at the extremity of the land of Chazaria seventeen rivers4 surrounding it unite, and whoever wishes to undertake a distant journey repairs hither.5
There is a sea there on one side, from which there arises a great stench,6 whilst on the other side there (is a sea) which does not emit any offensive smell.
There is about a day’s journey between the two seas.
If any individual passed the stinky sea, he would die immediately.
When the wind blows from the stinky sea to that not emitting any offensive smell many die.
People only go there when the wind blows in a different direction.7
Rabbi Petachia passed into the land of Togarma.8
From thence, and further on, people believe in the law of Mahomet.
From Togarma he entered the country of Ararat.
In eight days he journeyed as far as Nisibis, leaving the high mountains of Ararat9 at the right.
In the land of Kedar there are no Jews, only heretics.10
And Rabbi Petachia asked them, Why do you not believe in the words of the sages ? They replied, Because our fathers did not teach them to us.
On the eve of Sabbath they cut all the bread which they eat on Sabbath.
They eat in the dark, and sit the whole day on one spot.
Their prayers consist only of psalms.
And when Rabbi Petachia imparted to them our ritual and prayer after meals9 they were pleased.
Thev also said, We have never heard what the Talmud is.
In the land of Ararat he travelled in the mountains of Ararat as far as Nisibis and the city of Chosen Capha11 (that is, Strength of a Great Rock).
At the extremity of the mountains of Ararat he travelled two days to the opposite side.
At Nisibis there is a large congregation, also the synagogue of Rabbi Yehudah, son of Bethera, and two synagogues which Esdra the scribe built.12
In one of them is a red stone fixed in the wall, which he had brought with him, being from the stones of the Temple.
From Nisibis and further extends the land of AssuR. Chazaria has a language of its own; Togarma has a language of its own (they pay tribute to the King of Greece13); and Kedar has a language of its own.
From Nisibis he went in three days to New Nineveh.14
The river Tigris flows before Nineveh.
On the other side of the river he went a journey of three days in a different direction; there is Old Nineveh, which is desolate.
The whole land of Nineveh is black like pitch.
The site of Nineveh Proper, where a forest was, is overturned like Sodom." There is there neither herb nor any vegetation whateveR. New Nineveh, opposite, is on the other side of the riveR. At New Nineveh is a large congregation numbering more than six thousand souls.
It has two princes.
The name of the one is Rabbi David, and of the other Rabbi Samuel.
They are sons of two brothers, and of the seed of King David.
Everyone pays11 there annually a gold florin; of that coming from the Jews half belongs to the king sultan (whom they do not call king, but sultan), who stands under the King of Babel.16
The other half of the tribute belongs to the princes; they have fields and vineyards.
In those countries there are no precentors ;17 nor have they any in the land of Persia, Media and Damascus.
But among the household of the princes there are many disciples of the wise.
Sometimes they call upon this, and sometimes upon the other, to say the prayers.
The prince has also a prison, wherein he locks up the wicked.18
If a Gentile and a Jew have a dispute, whether the Jew or the Ishmaelite19 be the guilty, he locks him up.
R. Petachia fell sick at Nineveh, and the king’s physicians said that he would not live.
It is customary there that when a travelling Jew dies, the sultan takes half of his property ; and because R. Petachia was dressed in beautiful clothes they thought that he was rich; therefore the scribes of the sultan were there to take possession of the property, should he die.
But R. Petachia gave directions, sick as he was, to carry him over the river Tigris.
The river is broad, and not crossed over in boats, for the river is swift and impetuous, and would upset the boat.
Therefore they make rafts of reeds, which are called floss,20 upon which they put man and luggage.
The waters being healthy, he recovered immediately.
At Nineveh there was an elephant.
Its head is not at all protruding.
It is big, eats about two waggon loads of straw at once; its mouth is in its breast, and when it wants to eat it protrudes its lips about two cubits, takes up with it the straw, and puts it into its mouth.
When the sultan condemns anybody to death, they say to the elephant, This person is guilty.
It then seizes him with its lip, casts him aloft, and kills him.
Whatever a human being performs with his hand it performs with its lip; this is exceedingly strange and marvellous.
Upon the elephant is the structure of a city,21 upon which there are twelve armed warriors; when it stretches forth its lip they ascend as over a bridge.
At Nineveh there was an astrologer whose name was R. Shelomoh.
There is among all the sages in Nineveh, and the land of Assur, none as expert in the planets as he.
R. Petachia asked him when Messiah would come.
He replied, I have seen this often distinctly in the planets.
But Rabbi Yehudah, the Pious, would not write it down, lest he should be suspected as a believer in the words of Rabbi Shelomoh.22
He then embarkedon the Tigris, and went with the current of the river, in fifteen days, to the garden23 of the head of the academy24 in Babel.
The journey takes one month.
From Nineveh, and further on, there are congregations in every city and village.
He came to a garden of the head of the academy.
In the garden there are all kinds of fruit.
The garden is very large, there are mandrakes25 in it.
They have the face of a human being, their foliage is broad.
From thence he went, in one day, to Bagdad, in Babylon.
Nobody ascends the river Tigris, because its waters are swift and impetuous, but they employ camels and mules on dry land, tying the inflated skins on the backs of the camels.26
Bagdad is a metropolis.
It is the seat of the khaliph the sultan.
This is the great king who rules and governs nations.27
Bagdad is very large, more than a day’s journey from end to end.
Its circuit is more than three days’ journey.28
In the city of Bagdad there are a thousand Jews.
They walk about wrapped in cloths.
Nobody sees there any woman, nor does anybody go into the house of his friend, lest he should see the wife of his neighbouR. He would immediately say unto him, Insolent man, wherefore art thou come ? But he knocks with a tin (knocker), when the other comes forth and speaks to him.
They are all wrapped in praying scarfs of wool with fringes, in which they walk about.29
The head of the academy at Bagdad, is R. Samuel, the Levite, son of Ilai, head of the academy.30
He is the superior, full of wisdom, both in the written and oral law, and all the wisdom of Egypt.
Nothing is hidden from him.
He knows the names,31 and is profoundly versed in the Talmud.
There is no one so ignorant in the whole of Babylon, Assyria, Media, and Persia, but he knows the twenty-four books, the punctuation, the grammar, the superfluous and omitted letters, for the precentor does not read the law, but he that is called up to the scroll of the law reads himself.32
And the head of the academy has about two thousand17 disciples simultaneously, and more than five hundred surround him, and they are all well informed.
But before they are ripe for the academy they study in the city under other teachers, and when ripe they are brought before the head of the academy.
The head of the captivity is Rabbi Elieser, and under him is the head of the academy.
The head of the academy occupies a large house, which is covered with tapestry; he himself is clothed in garments adorned with gold.
He sits above, whilst the disciples are sitting on the ground.
He discourses to the interpreter, and the interpreter to the disciples.
The disciples address their queries to the interpreter,33 and if the interpreter does not know anything, he addresses himself to the head of the academy.
An interpreter expounds a treatise34 on one side, and another interpreter expounds another treatise on another side.
The whole study is with an intonation,35 and after the delivery he expounds it to them.
A year before the arrival of Rabbi Petachia, Rabbi Daniel, the head of the captivity, died.
He is a higher authority than the head of the academy.
They all possess a book of genealogy, up to the founders of the tribes; Rabbi Daniel descended from the house of David.
The monarch does not appoint a head of the captivity, save at the recommendation of the principal men among the Jews.
There is no one there eligible to be head of the captivity, except the two princes of the house of David, and some of the principal men prefer Rabbi David, and some Rabbi Samuel.36
They have not yet come to an understanding.
They are19 both of the disciples of the wise.
Rabbi Daniel had no sons, only daughters.
Rabbi Samuel has a book of genealogy going back as far as Samuel the Ramathean, son of Elkanah.
He has no sons, but only one daughteR. She is expert in the Scripture and Talmud.
She gives instruction in Scripture to young men, through a window.
She, herself, is within the building, whilst the disciples are below outside, and do not see heR. In all the land of Assyria and Damascus, in the cities of Persia and Media, as well as in the land of Babel, they have no other judge, unless appointed by Rabbi Samuel, the head of the academy.
It is he that gives license in every city to judge and to teach.
His authority is acknowledged in all countries, and also in the land of Israel.37
They all respect him; he has about sixty beadles, who hold the people in submission by means of rods.
After the leaving of the disciples, the elders derive instruction from him in the science of the planets, and other branches of knowledge.
There are large cities in the land of Ararat.38
There are few Jews there.
In ancient times many Jews lived there.
However they slew each other and separated, and went to the cities of Babel, Media, and Persia.39
But in the land of Cush40 and Babel there are more than sixty myriads of Jews; as many are in the land of Persia.
But in Persia the Jews are subject to hard bondage and sufferings.
Therefore Rabbi Petachia visited only one city in Persia.
Every Jew in Babel pays a gold florin annually to the head of the academy, as a poll-tax.
For the monarch re- quires no taxes, but only the head of the academy.
The Jews in the land of Babel live in peace.
The monarch who reigned in the days of Rabbi She- lomoh, father of Rabbi Daniel, was a friend of Rabbi She- lomoh, because the monarch was of the seed of Mahomet, and the head of the captivity descended from King David.
And he said to Rabbi Shelomoh that he wished to see the prophet Ezekiel, who performed miracles.
And Rabbi Shelomoh said to him, Thou canst not see him, for he is holy, nor must thou uncover his grave.
The monarch replied that he would explore it.
Then Rabbi Shelomoh and the elders said to him, My lord and king, Baruch, son of Neriah, his disciple,41 is buried near the enclosure of the prophet.
If it be thy will uncover his grave.
If thou canst see his disciple then thou mayest try to see his masteR. He then assembled all the princes, and commanded them to dig.
But every one that dug into the grave of Baruch, son of Neriah, fell down immediately and died.
There was there an old man, an Ishmaelite, who said to the monarch, Tell the Jews that they should dig.
The Jews replied, We are afraid.
But the king said, If you keep the law of Baruch, son of Neriah, he will not hurt you, for every Ishmaelite that dug fell down dead.
Then Rabbi Shelomoh said, Give us time, three days, that we may fast in order to obtain his pardon.
After three days the Jews dug, and were not hurt.
The coffin of Baruch, son of Neriah, was between two marble stones, he being between the two.
A portion of his praying scarf42 pro-23 truded between the stones.
The king said, No two kings make use of the same crown.43
It does not become this righteous man to be near Ezekiel.
I will transfer it to another locality.
They then carried away the marble stones together with the coffin.
When they came at the distance of a mile from the grave of Ezekiel, they could not stir from the place.
Nor could any horses or mules move the coffin from its place.
Then said Rabbi Shelomoh, Here the righteous man wishes to be buried, and they buried there the coffin, and built a beautiful palace over his grave.
Rabbi Samuel, the head of the academy, gave Rabbi Pe- tachia a document with his seal, that they should give him safe conduct whithersoever he should go, and that they should show him the graves of the disciples of the wise, and of the righteous.
In the land of Babel they study the commentary of Rabbi Saadiah,44 which he made on the whole of Scripture, and on the six volumes of the Mishna; as also the commentary of Rabbi Hai Gaon.45
Both of them, viz., Rabbi Saadiah and Rabbi Hai, are buried under Mount Sinai.
They say that from thence to Mount Sinai it is all one mountain.
It is near Bagdad.
Rabbi Petachia carried the seal of Rabbi Samuel with him; and the people did all that he required; and they feared him.
And Rabbi Petachia travelled to a city the name of which is Polos,46 a day’s journey from Bagdad.
There lives a distinguished priest, and all testify that he is of the seed of Aaron the priest, both from father’s and mother’s side, without any blemish.
He also possesses a book of gene-25 alogy.
Before that city is a grave over which a beautiful house is built.
He was told that some rich man saw in his dream an apparition, saying to him, I am a Jew whose name is Brosak, one of the princes that went into captivity with Jeconiah.
I am righteous.
Thou hast no children.
If thou wilt build a beautiful house over my grave thou wilt have children.
He built over it a house, and he had children.
They then put the question in a dream,47 to learn who was buried there, and he said, I am Brosak, I have no other name.
And the priest appointed about fifty youths, armed with spears and other weapons, who escorted him; for there is a people in the neighbourhood of Babel which does not respect the king’s authority It lives in the desert; and is called Charamim,48 because it robs and plunders every nation.
Their face is like the herb grona.49
They only believe in the God of Ezekiel, and thus all the Ishmaelites call them.
About a day’s or half a day’s journey from Bagdad, in the desert, is the grave of the prophet Ezekiel.
It is in the possession of the Charamim.
The city is about a mile from the grave.
The Jews possess the keys.
Round the grave of Ezekiel is a wall, and a large town, and a large enclosure.
The Jews open the wicket, which is so low that those entering have to crawl on hands and feet.
On the festival of Tabernacles people from all countries resort hither, when the entrance becomes enlarged by itself, so that they can enter it even on camels.
About 60,000 or80,000 Jews meet there, besides Ishmaelites.
Tabernacles are erected in the enclosure of Ezekiel.
Afterwards the entrance shrinks to its former dimensions.
All can see that.
Vows and free-will offerings take place over his grave.
And whoever is barren, or whose cattle is barren, makes a vow, or prays over his grave.
Rabbi Petachia was told that some person of distinction had a mare which had become barren,50 and he vowed that if the mare would bring forth a foal he would give it to Ezekiel.
His desire was gratified.
But as the foal was beautiful, he wished to keep it for himself.
But the foal left him of its own accord, and went into the enclosure of Ezekiel, through the gate, which was enlarged for the purpose.
The master searched for the horse everywhere without finding it.
At last he considered that having vowed it to the righteous Ezekiel, it might have gone there, and indeed he found it there; but when he desired to take it away he could not, for the entrance was too low.
Then a Jew said to him, The horse came here in a miraculous manner; you may perhaps have vowed it to the saint.
He confessed it, and said, Yes, I have vowed it to him, and what shall I do to be able to bring it out ? The Jew said, Take money and lay it on his grave.
If you lay down its value the horse will be able to go forth.
He gradually increased the amount of the money until it reached the value, when the entrance became enlarged, and it could go forth.
Rabbi Petachia went to the grave of Ezekiel, and took with him gold, and gold grains, and the grains fell from his hands, and he said, My Lord Ezekiel, for thy honour have I come, and now the grains have dropped from my hands and are lost.
Wherever they may be they are thine.
And he saw something, at some distance, like a staR. He thought it might be a precious stone.
He then went there and found the grains, when he placed them on the tomb of Ezekiel.
Every Ishmaelite that goes in pilgrimage to the tomb of Mahomet takes his way over the tomb of Ezekiel, and makes some present or free-will offering to Ezekiel, making a vow and praying, Our Lord Ezekiel, if I return I will give thee such and such a thing.
By way of the desert they go in forty days, from the tomb of Ezekiel to the river Sambation.51
Whoever wishes to go to a distant land deposits his purse, or any valuables, with Ezekiel, saying, Our Lord Ezekiel, take charge of this valuable for me until I return, and let nobody take it but its heiR. And many purses with money lie there rotting because they lay there many years.52
There were books there, and a worthless person wished to carry away one of the books, but could not, for pain and blindness seized him; therefore every one fears Ezekiel.
Whoever has not seen the beautiful large structure over his grave has never seen a fine building.
It is inside overlaid with gold.
Over the grave is a mass of lime, as high as a man, and round the lime, and over it, is a structure of cedar wood, which is gilded; the eye never saw the like.
There are windows in it, through which people pass their heads and pray.
At the top is a large cupola of gold, and beautiful carpets cover the inside.
There are also in it beautiful glass vases, and31 thirty lamps fed with olive oil burn there day and night.
They supply the olive oil from the gifts deposited for the lighting of the thirty lamps.
There are about 200 overseers appointed for the administration of the gifts deposited on his grave, who discharge their office one after the otheR. From the money deposited on his grave the synagogue requiring repair is repaired, orphans receive marriage portions, and destitute disciples are supported.
At Bagdad there are three synagogues, besides that built by Daniel on the spot on which the angel stood on the brink of the river, one on each bank, as is written in the book of Daniel.
Whilst Rabbi Petachia was on the grave of Ezekiel he saw in the building a bird the face of which was like that of a human being,53 at which the overseer acting as doorkeeper grieved, for he said, It is a tradition with us, from our fathers, that every house wherein such a bird is found will become a ruin.
But when the overseer observed that as the bird was going to quit the window it turned and died, he rejoiced greatly, for he said that since the bird was dead the doom was annulled.
The head of the academy told Rabbi Petachia that formerly a column of fire rested over the grave of Ezekiel,54 but that wicked persons had come and desecrated it, since there had come about 80,000 individuals to the feast of Tabernacles, among whom there were unworthy persons, and the column of fire was removed.
The Tabernacles are erected in the same enclosure, close to the burial ground.33
The river Euphrates and the river Chabo55 join; they can nevertheless be distinguished.
On the other side of the river Euphrates, about a mile, opposite to the grave of Ezekiel, are the graves of Hananiah, Mishael, and Esariah.
Each is separate.
Ezra, the scribe, is also buried there.56
He (Rabbi Petachia) then returned, and in two days went as far as Nehardeah.57
The city has a circuit of about three days; but everything is desolate.
There is a congregation in a portion of the city.
And when he produced the seal of the head of the academy they showed him the synagogue Shaf-Wyathib.58
Its three walls are of stone, and the western wall is on the river Euphrates.
No portion of the wall is built of either stone or brick, but consists entirely of the dust which Jechaniah brought with him.
The synagogue has no roof, for everything is desolate.
And the Jews told him that in the night they see a column of fire issue from it, extending as far as the grave of Brusak, which he mentioned before.
He then returned, and came to a city called Mella,59 where the grave of Rabbi Meir is, the same Rabbi Meir mentioned in the Mishnah.60
Before the town, by the water, is a field, and in that field is the grave.
And as the Eu- phrates, when it rose, inundated the grave, they took of the money vowed by Jews and Ishmaelites and built a city round his grave, with towers in the midst of the wateR. There is a beautiful house over his grave, which the Ishmaelites call Chinuk (Choking).
The reason thereof is that one day the sultan came and took away one of the p35 stones forming one of the steps leading to his grave.
But in the night Rabbi Meir appeared to him in a dream, seized him by the throat as though he was going to choke him, saying to him, Why didst thou carry away my stone ? Dost thou not know that I am righteous, and beloved by God ? The sultan then begged the rabbi’s pardon.
But he replied, I will not do so until thou earnest it back on thy own shoulder, before the eyes of all, saying, I was wicked in robbing my lord the righteous.
In the morrow he carried the stone on his shoulder and put it on its former place, saying, I was wicked in robbing my lord the righteous.
Therefore the Ishmaelites fear him, worship on his grave, make him presents, and vow that if they should return in peace they would give him this or that.
Whereever Rabbi Petachia showed the seal of the head of the academy, men armed with spears came immediately forward and escorted him.
From the grave of Ezekiel to that of Baruch, son of Neriah, is a distance of a mile, and from the grave of Baruch, son of Neriah, to that of Nahum, the Elkoshite,61 is about four parasangs.
Between them, in the middle, is the grave of Abba Aricha.62
The length of his grave is eighteen cubits; five of the Amoraim63 are buried there.
The mill which Raba64 had erected for the disciples is there, but it has no wateR. In his days they ground in it.
There is a beautiful house over it.
They have a tradition whereby they know graves of prophets and Amoraim, 550 in number, like the number of Sarim.65
Where there ex-37 ists a congregation near the grave of a righteous man they spread a costly cloth over the grave, and when they remove thence they spread a mat over the grave, on which there is no building.
Underneath most of the cloths or mats covering the graves a serpent is coiled, which guards the grave.66
Therefore they say to everyone, When thou raisest the mat beware of the serpent.
The head of the academy wrote down for him who the Amoraim buried there are.
Rabbi Petachia, however, forgot the list in Bohemia, for he came from Bohemia hither.67
He related that ever since he set out from Bohemia it was all towards the east.
Bohemia being to the east of Ra- tisbon, Russia to the east of Poland.
From thence he turned to the east, and came in six days to the grave of our lord Ezra, the scribe.
They said that in the days of old the grave of Ezra, the scribe, was ruinous.
Once a shepherd came, who saw a mound and slept on it.
Some one then appeared to him in a dream, saying to him, Tell the sultan I am Ezra, the scribe.
Let him take me up through the instrumentality of Jews, and place me in such and such a spot; if not all his people will die.
However, he did not attend to the matter, and so many people died.
Now Jews were called upon, who buried him with honouR. The grave was of marble stone, and upon the marble was a tablet, upon which was engraven, “I am Ezra, the scribe.” They buried him on the spot named to the shepherd, and erected a fine structure over his grave.
In the eleventh hour a column of fire ascends from his grave to the sky.
This continues during the eleventh and twelfth houR. It is also seen in the first hour of the night.
People can walk three or four para- sangs by the light of the pillaR. All the Ishmaelites worship there.
The keys of the houses over the graves are in the hands of the Jews.
They employ the proceeds of the vows in giving marriage portions to orphans, supporting disciples, and repairing synagogues of the pooR. Before Rabbi Petachia set out for the grave of Ezra, the scribe, he journeyed in eight days to Shushan,68 the former capital.
There are only two Jews there, who are dyers.
And he showed them the seal of the head of the academy, and they showed him the coffin of Daniel.69
Originally he was buried on one side of the river, and there was there great plenty, prosperity, and blessing.
Then those on the other side of the river said, Because the righteous man is not buried in our portion therefore our district is not blessed.
And there were constantly great wars between the two districts, during which the coffin was violently transferred from bank to bank.
At last some elders came, who having brought about a settlement between them, they took the coffin and suspended it by iron chains, on high iron pillars, erected in the middle of the riveR. The coffin is made of polished copper conspicuous in the middle of the river ten cubits above the wateR. At the distance it looks lustrous like glass.
The Jews told him that any vessel passing underneath the coffin will proceed in safety if those in it be pious, but will founder if this be not the case.
He was further told that underneath the coffin there are fish with golden pendants in their ears.70
He, however, did not pass underneath the coffin, but stood on the brink of the river looking at the coffin.
He then returned to Bagdad.
There he was shown a flying camel.71
It is low, and its legs are slender; and if anybody wishes to ride on it, he must tie himself to it lest he should fall down.
The rider traverses in one day the space over which a man on foot would have to pass fifteen days.
One might go even swifter if the rider only could stand it.
In one second it gallops a mile.
They also showed him the gates of Bagdad.
They are a hundred cubits high and ten cubits wide.
They are of polished copper, and ornamented with figures, so that no one can produce the like.
A nail once fell out, and no artificer is able to fix it again.
Formerly the horses used to be startled back at the sight of the gates, for seeing the brightness of the gates they perceived as it were other horses running towards them, whereby they took fright and started off.
They therefore poured boiling vinegar over the gates, and thus deadened the brightness of the polished copper, so that the horses should enteR. However, the polish of the copper is still partly perceived at the top, where no vinegar was poured.
These gates are of the gates of Jerusalem.
The head of the academy has many servants.
They flog any one not immediately executing his orders; therefore people fear him.
He, however, is righteous, humble, and full of knowledge of the law.
He is clothed in golden and coloured garments like the king; his palace also is hung with costly tapestry like that of the king.
Rabbi Petachia travelled in two days from Bagdad to the boundary of Old Babylon.72
The house of Nebuchadnezzar is all desolate.
Near his house is a pillar, and the house of Daniel looks as if it were new.
On the place where Daniel used to sit there is a stone, and where his feet rested a marble stone.
There is also a stone at the top, upon which the book lay out of which he used to write.
In the wall between the house of Daniel and that of Nebuchadnezzar is a small window through which he threw writings.
There are steps below, upon which three pious sages used to sit before him.
On his right, by his seat, a stone is fixed, and they declared that there was a tradition that there the vessels from the holy temple were hidden.
One day rulers who had heard of it came for the purpose of digging there ; but when they laid hold on the stone they all fell down dead, therefore they did not remove anything.
They then went from that room, and took him through the thickness of the wall to an upper room, wherein Daniel used to offer up his prayers.
The entrance is so inclined that it is exactly opposite Jerusalem, and it is so artificially made that nobody could point it out.
He then returned.
He stated that he did not see any woman whilst staying in Babylon, because they were all veiled and modest.
Everyone has a bath in his court- yard; and no one offered up his prayer before he had bathed.
All travellers there travel in the night, on account of the heat.
Everything grows there in winter as here in summeR. Most of their labours are performed during the night.
Babylon is, in fact, quite a different world.
The Jews are devoted to the study of the law and the fear of God.
The Ishmaelites also are trustworthy.
When a merchant arrives there he deposits his goods in a house and goes away.
The goods are then offered for sale in the market-places.
If the price demanded by the merchant is given, it is good.
If not, the goods are shown to all the brokers.
Should they become spelled they are sold.
All that is done with honesty.
In Babylon there are thirty synagogues, besides that of Daniel.
However, there is no minister there, and he whom the head of the academy bids to do so acts as precentoR. It is done in this manneR. Some one recites the hundred benedictions, and those present say Amen ; then some one recites the prayer of Baruch Sheamar73 with a loud voice, another rises and recites all the Praises, who is joined by the whole congregation; his voice, however, is heard above them all that they should not recite too fast, and they all follow him.
He recites the prayer of Yeshta- bach before Vayosha, and then goes on with the other prayers.
Thus the prayer is divided between several precentors.
No one talks to his neighbour at synagogue; all stand decorously, and they are all at synagogue without shoes, barefooted.
When, whilst practising, they should be mistaken in a tune, the head of the academy gives them a sign with his finger; they then understand what is the tune.
If there be any young man having a pleasing voice he recites a psalm.
On the half-holidays74 they recite the psalms with the accompaniment of musical instruments, and they know by tradition with what tunes.75
For the Asor they have ten tunes, and for the Shemineth eight tunes ;78 they have several tunes for each psalm.
When Rabbi Petachia was in the room of Daniel they showed him a very deep lions’ den, and also a lime-kiln half filled with wateR. Whoever is attacked by fever bathes therein and is healed.
Whilst at Bagdad he saw ambassadors from the kings of Meshech, for Magog is about ten days’ journey from thence.77
The land extends as far as the Mountains of Darkness.78
Beyond the Mountains of Darkness are the sons of Jonadab, son of Rechab.79
To the seven kings of Meshech an angel appeared in a dream, bidding them to give up the laws and statutes, and to embrace the law of Moses, son of Amram.
If not, he threatened to lay waste their country.
However, they delayed until the angel commenced to lay waste their country, when the kings of Meshech and all the inhabitants of their countries became proselytes, and they sent to the head of the academy a request to send them some disciples of the wise.
Every disciple of the wise that is poor goes there to teach them the law and Babylonian Talmud.80
From the land of Egypt the disciples go there to study.
He saw the am-49 bassadors visit the grave of Ezekiel when they heard of the miracles, and that they who prayed there were heard.
Rabbi Petachia said that the mountains of Ararat are five days’ journey from Babylon.
The mountains of Ararat are high.
There is one high mountain, above which there are four others, of which two are opposite two.
The ark of Noah was carried between these mountains and could not get out.
However, the ark is not there, for it has decayed.
The mountains are full of thorns and other herbs; when the dew falls upon them, manna falls upon them, but when the sun shines warm it melts.
Whatever portion of it is gathered in the night, if it be kept, likewise melts.
They therefore carry off the manna together with the thorns and herbs, which they are obliged to cut off, since they are very hard.
It is white like snow.
The herbs and nettles are very bitteR. However, when boiled together with the manna they become sweeter than honey and every other sweet stuff.
Were it boiled without the nettles the limbs of the partaker thereof would become disjointed for excessive sweetness.
They look like small grains.
They gave him a few to taste; they melted in his mouth; they were sweet; penetrating into all his limbs, so that he could not bear the sweetness.81
When Rabbi Petachia visited the grave of Ezekiel he saw the tower of the generation of the dispersed; it is all fallen in, forming a high mountain, a mound for ever.82
The king, contemporaneous with Rabbi Shelomoh, father of Rabbi Daniel, head of the captivity, having seen51 the brightness ascending from the grave of Baruch, son of Neriah, and whose beautiful and splendid praying scarf was faintly visible between the marble stones, went afterwards to the city of Meccah, to the tomb of Mahomet ;83 and behold there was a decayed and putrefied corpse, from whose grave such a disagreeable smell arose that nobody could bear it.
He then said to his people that there was nothing substantial either in Mahomet or his religion, for they knew that the body of Baruch, son of Neriah, was preserved, that his praying scarf protruded from his tomb, that he was a disciple to a prophet, and that the Ishmaelites who dug up his grave perished, whilst the Jews were not hurt; therefore we may know that the Jews hold by the law kept by Baruch, son of Neriah.
He, however, could not gain time to convert himself and his people before he died, and thus the resolution of converting all his people became void.
Ezra, the scribe, is buried on the boundary of the land of Babylon.84
When the pillar of fire is over his grave, the structure erected on it is not visible, on account of the brightness over his grave.
Behind the upper chamber of Daniel is a beautiful pleasure garden, wherein the palm trees, as well as his well, are still in existence.
Whoever of us stays in the place some little time understands their language, for it is nearly allied to ours, or the Targum: for instance, derech becomes droch, lechem, lechom.85
In the land of Ishmael the gold grows like herbs.86
In the night its brightness is seen, when a mark is made with dust or lime.
They then come in the morning and gather the herbs upon which the gold is found.
Therefore gold coins are found there, and they possess much gold.
He then turned to the west, came back to Nineveh, from Nineveh to Nisibis.
There is the synagogue which Ezra built; upon the stone is engraved “Ezra, the Scribe.” He then went to Haran, and to Aram Naha- raim, situate between two rivers.87
At Nisibis there are about 800 Jews From thence he went to Hemoth.88
He named all the cities; and stated how many days it took him to travel from city to city.
However, there is no occasion to write it down.
From thence (he went) to Haleb,89 that is Aram Zobah.
Why is it called Haleb? Because on the mountain was the flock of Abraham our fatheR. Steps led down from the mountain, whence he was accustomed to reach milk to the pooR. From thence he went to Damascus.
This is a large city; the King of Egypt rules over it.
There are there about 10,000 Jews, who have a prince.
The head of their academy is Rabbi Esra, who is full of the knowledge of the law, for Rabbi Samuel, head of the academy of Babylon, ordained him.
Damascus has goodly lands; it lies in the midst of gardens and pleasure grounds.
There are also high fountains from which the water pours, and many large pools.
The Ishmaelites say, If Paradise be on earth then Damascus is the Paradise, and if it be in heaven, then Damascus is opposite on the earth.
Whosoever goes to Da- mascus sees mount Seir on the side, as also mount Hermon,90 and mount Lebanon.
In the land of Sihon and Og there is neither grass nor plant, as though it had been overturned like Sodom and Gomorra.
He saw there a grave80 cubits long.
He was told that it was the grave of Shem, son of Noah.
But the Jews did not tell him so.
There is about two days’ journey to Syria.
The Jordan passes through a cave, as they said, from the cave of Paneas.
He then came to Tiberias; at which place there is a congregation, for there are also congregations in the land of Israel, which, however, only number one hundred, two hundred, or three hundred families.91
At Tiberias there is a synagogue which Joshua, son of Nun, built.
At Sepphoris there is buried our holy rabbi.92
A pleasing odour ascends from his grave.
This odour is smelt at the distance of a mile from his grave.
The graves in the land of Israel are in hollows, but not those of Babylon.
For in Babylon water appears, and therefore they cannot dig deep caves.
Of the posterity of Rabbi Yehoodah a descendant exists, whose name is Rabbi Nehorai, who has a son whose name is Yehoodah, after Rabbi Yehoodah, the prince.93
He possesses a book of genealogy going back to Rabbi Yehoodah.
Rabbi Nehorai is a physician, and sells spices in the market.
His children are with him in the shop.
They are wrapt in that they should not look about.
He is a disciple of the wise and righteous.
Tiberias, Sepphoris,94 and all the cities in the plain, belong to Lower Galilea.
He also saw Usha and Shifrem, where Rabbi Gamliel lived at the seat of the Sanhedrin.95
There are Jews at Acco.96
At Yabneh there is a spring which flows all six days, but on Sabbath not a single drop is found in it.97
In Lower Galilea there is a cave which inside is spacious and high.
On one side of the cave are buried Shamai and his disciples; and on the other Hillel and his disciples.
In the middle of the cave there is a large stone, hollow like a cup, which is capable of containing more than forty seah.98
When men of worth enter, the stone appears full of sweet wateR. One may then wash his hands and feet, and pray, imploring God for what one desires.
The stone, however, is not hollow from below, for the water does not come from the bottom, as it only occurs in honour of a man of worth, since to an unworthy man the water does not appeaR. Though one should draw from the stone a thousand jugs of water, it would not be diminished, but would remain full as before.
He then went to Upper Galilea and stayed among the mountains.
There is Nithai, the Arbelite, buried at Arbel.99
Mount Gaash100 is very high, on it Obadiah, the prophet, is buried.
The mountain is ascended by means of steps formed in the mountain.
In the midst of the mountain Joshua, son of Nun, is buried; and by his side Kaleb, son of Jephunah.
Close by, a spring of good water gushes from the mountain ; there are beautiful palaces erected near the graves.
Every building in the land of Israel is of stone.
Near one of the palaces a foot- print is perceptible, like that of a human being treading on snow.
This is that which the angel imprinted after the death of Joshua, son of Nun, when the land of Israel was shaken.101
Rabbi Petachia said that a circuit of the whole land of Israel might be made in three days.
From thence he went to the grave of Jonah, son of Amittai.
There is a beautiful palace built over it.
Near it is a pleasure garden wherein all kinds of fruit are found.
The keeper of the pleasure garden is a Gentile.
Nevertheless, when Gentiles come there he gives them no fruit, but when Jews come he gives them a friendly reception, saying, Jonah, son of Amittai, was a Jew, therefore it is due to you to partake of what is his, and then gives to the Jews to eat thereof.
He then came to Rachel’s grave, at Ephroth, half a day’s journey from Jerusalem.
Upon her grave are eleven stones, according to the number of the eleven tribes; and because Benjamin was only born at her death there is no stone erected for him.
They are of marble.
The stone of Jacob, however, consisting of one piece of marble, above all of them, is very large, a load for many persons.
A mile from hence are priests who took away the large stone from the grave and placed it in a building for strange service.102
In the morning, however, it was seen on the grave as before.
This was repeated several times, until at last they abstained from carrying it away.
On the stone is engraved the name of Jacob.
He also saw the stone over the well near Haran.
, Forty persons could not move it from its place.
The well is about thirty cubits deep; there is, however, no water in it.
He then went to Jerusalem.
The only Jew there is Rabbi Abraham, the dyer,103 and he pays a heavy tax to the king to be permitted to remain there.
They showed him Mount Olivet, and he saw that the pavement was three cubits high, which is the breadth thereof.104
There is also there a beautiful palace which the Ishmaelites built in ancient times, when Jerusalem was still in the hands of the Ishmaelites.
Then came worthless persons who brought to the king of the Ishmaelites the slanderous report, saying, There is an old man among us who knows the locality of the temple and the court.
Then the king urged him until he pointed it out.
The king was a friend of the Jews, and said, I will build here a temple, and none but Jews shall pray therein.
He built the temple of marble stone, a beautiful structure consisting of red, green, and variegated marble.
Then came Gentiles and put images in it; but they fell down.
They then fixed the images in the thickness of the wall; but in the holy of holies they could not place any.105
The hospital106 where the poor are is on another side.
The ground is cleft, and is called Valley of the Son of Hinom, where their burial place is.
The circuit of the land of Israel may be made in about three days.
He saw the salt sea of Sodom and Gomorra.
There is no herb there.
As to the pillar of salt, he said that he did not see it, and that it no longer existed.
Nor did he see the stones which Joshua erected.107
He then went to Hebron.
He saw over the cave a large palace, which Abraham, our father, built.
There are in it large stones of twenty-seven or twenty-eight cubits.
Every corner stone is about seventy cubits.
He gave to the keeper of the key of the cave a gold piece to take him to the graves of the fathers; and he opened it, and behold there was over the entrance an image,108 and inside three cells.
The Jews of Acco had told him previously, Beware, for they have placed three corpses at the entrance of the cave, saying that these were the patriarchs; but they are not.
But the keeper of the cave said that they were.
He, therefore, gave him another gold piece to take him inside the cave.
He then opened it, saying, I never permitted a Gentile before to enter this gate.
He then brought lights and they went inside, and had to descend steps, and before he entered the cave he had outside to descend fifteen steps.
They then came to a very spacious cave.
In the midst of the cave there is an entrance in the ground.
The ground consists all of rock; and all the graves are in the hollow of the rock; and over that entrance, in the middle, are placed very thick iron bars, the like no man can make unless through heavenly instrumentality, and a storm-wind blows from between the holes between bar and baR. He could not enter there with lights.
Then he understood that the fathers were there, and he prayed there.
Whenever he bent towards65 the mouth of the cave a storm-wind went forth and cast him backwards.
At Jerusalem there is a gate, its name is, Gate of Mercy.109
The gate is full of stone and lime.
No Jew, and still less a Gentile, is permitted to go there.
One day the Gentiles wished to remove the rubbish and open the gate, but the whole land of Israel shook, and there was a tumult in the city until they left off.
There is a tradition amongst the Jews that the divine glory appeared through this gate, and that through it it would return.
It is exactly opposite Mount Olivet.
Mount Olivet is lower than it.
Nevertheless, whoever stands on that mountain may see it.
His feet will stand that day on Mount Olivet.110
They shall see distinctly when the Eternal will return to Zion through that gate.
Prayers are offered up there.
The Tower of David still exists.
At Damascus there is a synagogue which Elihsa built, also one built by Rabbi Elieser, son of Asariah;111 it is large, and service is performed in it.
Among the oaks of Mamre, at a distance from there, dwelled an old man, who was near death when Rabbi Petachia arrived there, and he told his son to show Rabbi Petachia the tree under which the angels rested.
He also showed him a fine olive tree cleft into three parts with a stone in the middle.
They have a tradition that when the angels sat down the tree was cleft into three parts, each resting under one tree whilst sitting on the stone.
The fruits of the tree are very sweet.
By the tree is the well of Sarah; its waters are clear and sweet.
By the well is the tent of Sarah.
Close by Mamre is a plain, and on the other side there are about a hundred cubits from the well of Sarah to the well of Abraham; its water is very agreeable.
They also showed him a stone of twenty-eight cubits, upon which Abraham, our father, was circumcised.
The old man affirmed, with an oath, that now that he was quitting the world and would not say a falsehood, that one day, on the fast of the Day of Atonement, he saw a fiery angel and a fiery horse by the well of Sarah, who was offering up his devotion.
In Greece the Jews are subject to great oppression; and even compelled to perform menial work personally.
There are youths among them who are expert in the use of the divine name, and conjure evil spirits, which are compelled to serve them like slaves.112
There are there many congregations, so that the land of Israel could not contain them were they settled therein.
In the village of Usa113 is buried Jonah, son of Amittai, in Basra, of Babylon, Ezra, the scribe.
Rabbi Chana, the Bagdadian,114 who wrote in the Talmud, was of Bagdad, the great city as mentioned before.
At Babylon there are no stones, but everything is of brick.
End of the words of Rabbi Petachia, brother of Rabbi Yizchak, the White, author of the Tosephoth, and of Rabbi Nachman, of Ratisbon.