RABBI PETACHIA OF RATISBON (1170-87)
R. Petachia, son of R. Jacob, the brother of the Tosaphist, R. Isaac Halavan, and of R. Nachman of Ratisbon, was born there in the first half of the twelfth century.
After settling for some years at Prague, he started thence on his travels through Poland, Kief, Crimea, Tartary, Armenia, Media, Persia, Iraq, Syria, Palestine, and Greece.
His travels were only ten or fifteen years after those of Benjamin of Tudela and their accounts supplement each other.
Petachia’s references to the Karaites were the sole source of information about them until the studies of Professor Trigland at the beginning of the eighteenth century.
Petachia must have been in Damascus between 1174 and 1187, because he reached that city after Saladin had captured Damascus and while the Crusaders were still in Jerusalem.
The account is described as a “ Sibbub ” or circular voyage.
It is not Petachia’s own account but a narrative put together from his notes by a contemporary, Rabbi Judah the Pious bar Samuel, who seems to have accompanied him on part of his way.
The text is based upon a manuscript which was printed in Prague in 1595 and translated into German at Altdorf in 1687, and into Latin by Wagenseil in the same year at Strasburg, into French by Carmoly in Paris in 1831, into English by Dr.
Benisch in London in 1856 (with a second edition in 1861), and edited by Dr. Griinhut in Jerusalem.

These are the travels undertaken by Rabbi Petachia, who travelled through many lands.
He set out from Prague, which is in Bohemia, going to Poland, and from Poland to Kiew in Russia.
From Russia he went for six days on the River Dnieper.
On the other side of the river he commenced his travels in the land of Kedar.1 
There they have no ships, but sew together ten extended horse hides, with a thong round the border ; they then seat themselves on the hides, placing thereon also the wagons and all the luggage.
They then tie the thong which is on the border of the hides to the tails of the horses, who start swimming, and thus they pass over the water.
They eat no bread in the land of Kedar, but rice and millet boiled in milk, as well as milk and cheese.
They also put pieces of flesh under the saddle of a horse, which they ride and, urging on the animal, cause it to sweat.
The flesh getting warm, they eat it.
They only travel in the land of Kedar under escort.
This is the manner in which the sons of Kedar pledge their faith to each other.
One man thrums a needle into his finger and invites the intended companion of his journey to swallow the blood of the wounded finger.
He and that other person become, as it were, the same blood and flesh.
They have another fashion of entering into this bond.
They fill a vessel of cast copper of the shape of a human face and the traveller and his escort drink thereout, after which they never prove faithless.
They have no king, but only princes and nobles.
Rabbi Petachia passed through the whole length of the land of Kedar in sixteen days.
The inhabitants live in tents ; they are far-sighted and have beautiful eyes, because they eat no salt and live among fragrant plants.
They are good archers, bringing down birds whilst on the wing.
They perceive and recognize (objects) at more than a day’s distance.
There are no mountains in their country, but all is level.
And a day’s journey behind the land of Kedar extends a gulf,2 intervening between the land of Kedar and the land of Khozaria.3 
There it is cusstomary for women the whole day and night to bemoan and lament their deceased fathers and mothers.
This they continue until any of their sons or daughters or other members of the family die, and the lasst (survivors) lament those 65 that preceded them in death.
They teach their daughters lamentation.
In the night they groan and howl.
The dogs also whine and bark at their voice.
The rabbi then travelled about eight days, and came where, at the extremity of the land of Khozaria, seventeen rivers 4 surrounding it unite, and whoever wishes to undertake a distant journey repairs hither.
There is a sea there on one side, from which there arises a great stench,5 whilst on the other side there is a sea which does not emit any offensive smell.
There is about a day’s journey between the two seas.
If any individual passed the linking sea he would die immediately.
When the wind blows from the stinking sea to that not emitting any offensive smell many die.
People only go there when the wind does not blow from it.
Rabbi Petachia passed into the land of Togarma.6 From thence, and further on, people believed in the law of Mahomet.
From Togarma he entered the country of Ararat.
In eight days he journeyed as far as Nisibis, leaving the high mountains of Ararat at the right.
In the land of Kedar there are no Jews but only Karaites.7 And Rabbi Petachia asked them : “ Why do you not believe in the words of the sages ? ” 
They replied : “ Because our fathers did not teach them to us.” On the eve of the Sabbath they cut all the bread to be eaten on the Sabbath.
They eat in the dark and sit the whole day on one spot.
Their prayers consist only of psalms.
And when Rabbi Petachia imparted to them our ritual and prayer after meals they were pleased.
They also said : “ We have never heard of the Talmud.”
In the land of Ararat he travelled in the mountains of Ararat as far as Nisibis and the city of the Hisn Kaifa 8 (that is, Strength of a Great Rock). 
At the extremity of the mountains of Ararat he travelled two days to the opposite side.
At Nisibis there is a large congregation, also the synagogue of Rabbi Judah, son of Bethera, and two synagogues built by Ezra the Scribe.
In one of them is a red stone, fixed in the wall, which Ezra had brought with him and which had been one of the atones of the Temple.
From Nisibis and further extends the land of Assur.
Khozaria has a language of its own ; Togarma has a language of its own (they pay tribute to the King of Greece 9) ; and Kedar has a language of its own.
From Nisibis the rabbi journeyed in three days to New Nineveh.10 The river Tigris flows before Nineveh.
On the other side of the river he went a journey of three days more in a different direction to old Nineveh, which is desolate.
The whole land of Nineveh is black as pitch.
The site of Nineveh proper, where the city was, is overthrown like Sodom.
There is there neither herb nor any vegetation.
New Nineveh, opposite, is on the other side of the river.
At New Nineveh is a large congregation numbering more than six thousand souls.
It has two princes.
The name of one is Rabbi David and of the other Rabbi Samuel.
They are sons of two brothers and of the seed of King David.
Everyone pays there annually a gold florin ; of that coming from the Jews half belongs to the king or sultan (whom they do not call king, but sultan), who is subject to the King of Babel (Caliph of Baghdad). 
The other half belongs to the princes ; they have fields and vineyards.
In those countries there are no precentors, nor have they any in the lands of Persia, Media, and Damascus.
But among the households of the princes there are many scholars.
Sometimes they call upon this man, and sometimes upon that, to recite the prayers.
The prince has also a prison wherein he locks up the wicked.
If a Gentile and a Jew have a dispute, he im-prisons the guilty party whether Jew or Muhammadan.
R. Petachia fell sick at Nineveh, and the king’s physicians said that he would not live.
It is the custom there that when a Jew on his travels dies the sultan takes half of his property ; and because R. Petachia was dressed in beautiful clothes they thought that he was rich ; therefore the scribes of the sultan came thither to take possession of his property should he die.
But R. Petachia gave directions, sick as he was, to carry him over the river Tigris.
The river is broad and not crossed over in boats, for the current is swift and impetuous and would upset the boat.
Therefore, they make rafts of reeds, which we call floss., upon which they put man and luggage.
The waters being healing, he recovered immediately.
At Nineveh there was an elephant.
Its head is not at all protruding.
It is big, eats about two wagon loads of draw at one time ; its mouth is in its bread, and when it wants to eat it protrudes its lip (trunk) about two cubits, takes up with it the draw, and puts it into its mouth.
When the sultan condemns any-body to death they say to the elephant : this person is guilty.
It then seizes him with its lip, cads him aloft, and kills him.
Whatever a human being does with his hand it does with its lip ; this is exceedingly drange and marvellous.
Upon the elephant’s back is set a dructure like a citadel (howdah), within which there are twelve armed warriors ; when the bead dretches forth its lip they climb up, using it as a bridge.
At Nineveh there was an adrologer whose name was R. Solomon.
There is among all the sages in Nineveh, and the land of Assur, none as expert in the planets as he.
R. Petachia asked him when Messiah would come.
He replied, I have seen this often didindly in the planets.
But Rabbi Judah the Pious would not write it down led he should be suspected of being a believer in the words of Rabbi Solomon.
The rabbi then embarked on the Tigris and went with the current of the river, in fifteen days, to the garden of the head of the academy11 in Babel.
The journey (would otherwise) take one month.
From Nineveh, and further on, there are congregations in every city and village.
He came to the garden of the head of the academy.
In the garden there are all kinds of fruit.
The garden is very large and there are mandrakes in it.
These have the face of a human being and their foliage is broad.
From thence he travelled in one day to Bagdad, in Babylon.
Nobody ascends the River Tigris because its waters are swift and impetuous, but they employ camels and mules on dry land, tying inflated skins on the backs of the camels.
Baghdad is a metropolis.
It is the seat of the Caliph or sultan.
This is the great king 12 who rules and governs nations.
Baghdad is very large, more than a day’s journey from end to end.
To go round it is more than three days’ journey.
In the city of Baghdad there are a thousand Jews.
They walk about wrapped in cloth.
Nobody there looks upon any woman, nor does anybody go into the house of his friend lest he should see the wife of that neighbour, who would immediately say unto him : insolent man, wherefor art thou come ? 
But he knocks with a tin (knocker), when the other comes forth and speaks to him.
They all walk about wrapped in their praying scarves of wool with fringes.
The head of the academy at Baghdad is R. Samuel, the Levite, son of Eli, head of the academy.
He is the superior, full of wisdom both in the written and oral law and in all the wisdom of Egypt.
Nothing is hidden from him.
He knows the holy names,13 and is profoundly versed in the Talmud.
There is no one so ignorant in the 69 whole of Babylon, Assyria, Media, and Persia, but knows the twenty-four books,14 punctuation, grammar, the superfluous and omitted letters, for the preceptor does not recite the scripture lesson, but he that is called up to the scroll of the law recites it himself.14 The head of the academy has about two thousand disciples at once, and more than five hundred sit round him, and they are all well-informed.
But before they are ripe for the academy, they Study in the city under other teachers, and when ripe they are brought before the head of the academy.
The Rosh Gola (Exilarch) is Rabbi Eleazar, and under him is the head of the academy.
The head of the academy occupies a large house, which is covered with tapestry ; he himself is clothed in garments adorned with gold.
He is seated above and the disciples sit on the ground.
He expounds to the interpreter, and the interpreter to the disciples.
The disciples address their queries to the interpreter, and if the interpreter does not know the answer he addresses himself to the head of the academy.
An interpreter expounds Tractate of the Talmud on one side, and another interpreter expounds another Tractate on the other side.
The treatise to be expounded is first intoned, and after-wards the interpreter expounds it.
A year before the arrival of Rabbi Petachia, Rabbi Daniel, the head of the captivity, died.
He is a higher authority than the head of the academy.
They all possess a book of genealogy up to the founders of the tribes ; Rabbi Daniel descended from the house of David.
The monarch appoints a head of the captivity only upon the recommendation of the principal men among the Jews.
The only men eligible to be head of the captivity there are two princes of the house of David, and of these two some of the principal men prefer Rabbi David and some Rabbi Samuel.
On this matter no understanding has yet been reached.
They are both of them wise men.
Rabbi Daniel had no sons, only daughters.
Rabbi Samuel has a book of genealogy going back as far as Samuel of Ramah, son of Elkanah.
He has no sons, but only one daughter.
She is expert in Scripture and Talmud.
She gives in&rudiion in Scripture to young men through a window.
She, herself, is within the building, whilst the disciples are below outside and do not see her.
In all the land of Assyria and Damascus, in the cities of Persia and Media, as well as in the land of Babel, they have no judge that has not been appointed by Rabbi Samuel, the head of the academy.
It is he that gives licence in every city to judge and to teach.
His authority is acknowledged in all countries, and also in the land of Israel.
They all respect him.
He has about sixty beadles who hold the people in submission by means of rods.
After the departure of the disciples, the elders derive instruction from Rabbi Samuel in the science of the planets and other branches of knowledge.
There are large cities in the land of Ararat.15 There are few Jews there.
In ancient times many Jews lived there.
However, they slew each other and separated and went to the cities of Babel, Media, and Persia.
But in the land of Cush 16 and Babel there are more than sixty myriads of Jews ; and there are as many in the land of Persia.
But in Persia the Jews are subject to hard bondage and sufferings.
Therefore, Rabbi Petachia visited only one city in Persia.
Every Jew in Babel pays a gold florin annually to the head of the academy as a poll-tax.
For the monarch requires no taxes, but only the head of the academy.
The Jews in the land of Babel live in peace.
The monarch who reigned in the days of Rabbi Solomon, father of Rabbi Daniel, was a friend of Rabbi Solomon because the monarch was of the seed of Mahomet, and the head of the Captivity descended from King David.
And he said to Rabbi Solomon that he wished to see the prophet Ezekiel, who performed miracles.
And Rabbi Solomon said to him : thou camst not see him, for he is holy, nor must thou uncover his grave.
The monarch replied that he would explore it.
Then Rabbi Solomon and the elders said to him, My lord and king, Baruch, son of Neriah, his disciple, is buried near the enclosure of the prophet.
If it be thy will uncover his grave.
If thou canst see his disciple then thou mayest try to see his master.
He then assembled all the princes, and commanded them to dig.
But everyone that dug into the grave of Baruch, son of Neriah, fell down immediately and died.
There was there an old man, an Ishmaelite, who said to the monarch : tell the Jews that they should dig.
The Jews replied : we are afraid.
But the king said : if you keep the law of Baruch, son of Neriah, he will not hurt you, for every Ishmaelite that dug fell down dead.
Then Rabbi Solomon said, Give us time, three days, that we may fast in order to obtain his pardon.
After three days the Jews dug, and were not hurt.
The coffin of Baruch, son of Neriah, was between two marble Clones, he being between the two.
A portion of his Tallith (praying scarf) 17 protruded between the atones.
The king said : no two kings make use of the same crown 18 ; it does not become this righteous man to be near Ezekiel.
I will transfer him to another place.
They then carried away the marble atones together with the coffin.
When they had arrived at the distance of a mile from the grave of Ezekiel, they could not stir from the spot.
Nor could any horses or mules move the coffin from its place.
Then said Rabbi Solomon, Here the righteous man wishes to be buried, and they buried there the coffin, and built a beautiful palace over his grave.
Rabbi Samuel, the head of the academy, gave Rabbi Petachia a document with his seal, diredding that he should have safe conduct whithersoever he should go, and that he should be shown the graves of the disciples of the wise and of the righteous.
In the land of Babel they dtudy the commentary of Rabbi Saadya Gaon, which he made on the whole of Scripture, and on the six orders of the Mishna ; as also the commentary of Rabbi Hai Gaon.
Both of them are buried under Mount Sinai.
They say that from thence to Mount Sinai is all one mountain range.
It is near Baghdad.
Rabbi Petachia carried the seal of Rabbi Samuel with him ; and the people did all that he required ; and they feared him.
And Rabbi Petachia travelled to a city the name of which is Polos,19 a day’s journey from Baghdad.
A distinguished priest lives there and all testify that he is of the seed of Aaron the priest, both from father’s and mother’s side, without any blemish.
He also possesses a book of genealogy.
Before that city is a grave over which a beautiful house is built.
He was told that some rich man saw in his dream an apparition, saying to him : I am a Jew whose name is Brosak, one of the princes that went into captivity with Jeconiah.
I am righteous.
Thou hast no children.
If thou wilt build a beautiful house over my grave thou wilt have children.
He built over it a house, and he had children.
They then put the question in a dream, to learn who was buried there, and he said : I am Brosak, I have no other name.
And the priest appointed about fifty youths, armed with spears and other weapons, who escorted him ; for there is a people in the neighbourhood of Babel which does not respedt the king’s authority.
This people lives in the desert and is called Charamim (the accursed), because it robs and plunders every nation.
Their faces are like the herb grona.
They only believe in the God of Ezekiel, and thus all the Ishmaelites call them.
About a day’s or half a day’s journey from Baghdad, in the desert, is the grave of the prophet Ezekiel.
It is in the possession of the Charamim.
The city (Kifl) is a mile from the grave.
The Jews possess the keys.
Round the grave of Ezekiel is a wall, and a large town, and a large enclosure.
The Jews open the wicket, which is so low that those entering have to crawl on hands and feet.
On the festival of Tabernacles, people from all countries resort hither, when the entrance becomes enlarged by itself so that they can enter it even on camels.
About 60,000 or 80,000 Jews meet there, besides Ishmaelites.
Tabernacles are erected in the enclosure of Ezekiel.
Afterwards the entrance shrinks to its former dimensions.
All can see that.
Vows and free-will offerings take place over his grave.
And whoever is barren, or whose cattle is barren, makes a vow, or prays over his grave.
Rabbi Petachia was told that some person of distinction had a mare which had become barren,20 and he vowed that if the mare would bring forth a foal he would give it to Ezekiel.
His desire was gratified.
But as the foal was beautiful, he wished to keep it for himself.
But the foal left him of its own accord and went into the enclosure of Ezekiel, through the gate, which was enlarged for the purpose.
The master searched for the horse everywhere without finding it.
At last he supposed that, having vowed it to the righteous Ezekiel, it might have gone there to him, and there indeed he found it ; but when he desired to take the foal away he could not, for the entrance was too low.
Then a Jew said to him : the horse came here in a miraculous manner ; you may, perhaps, have vowed it to the saint.
He confessed, and said, yes, I did vow it to him.
What shall I do to enable me to bring it out ? The Jew said : take money and lay it on his grave ;
 if you lay down its value the horse will be able to go forth.
He gradually increased the amount of the money until it reached the value, when the entrance became enlarged so that the foal could go forth.
Rabbi Petachia went to the grave of Ezekiel, and took with him gold, and gold grains, and the grains fell from his hands, and he said : my Lord Ezekiel, for thy honour have I come, and now the grains have dropped from my hands and are lost.
Wherever they may be they are thine.
And he saw what in the distance looked like a star.
He thought it might be a precious stone.
He then went there in that direction, and found the grains, and placed them on the tomb of Ezekiel.
Every Ishmaelite that goes in pilgrimage to the tomb of Mahomet takes his way past the tomb of Ezekiel and makes some present or free-will offering to Ezekiel, making a vow and praying ; our Lord Ezekiel, if I return I will give thee such and such a thing.
The journey by way of the desert takes forty days from the tomb of Ezekiel to the Sambation.
Whoever wishes to go to a distant land deposits his purse, or his valuables, with Ezekiel, saying : our Lord Ezekiel, take charge of this valuable for me until I return, and let nobody take it but the rightful heir.
And many purses with money lie there rotting because they have lain there many years.
There were at one time books there, and a worthless person wished to carry away one of the books, but could not, for pain and blind-ness seized him ; therefore, everyone fears Ezekiel.
Whoever has not seen the beautiful large stru<Sture over his grave has never seen a fine building.
It is overlaid inside with gold.
Over the grave is a mass of lime, as high as a man, and round the lime, and over it, is a strudture of cedar wood, which is gilded ; the eye never saw the like.
There are windows in it, through which people pass their heads and pray.
At the top is a large cupola of gold, and beautiful carpets cover the inside.
There are also in it beautiful glass vases, and thirty lamps fed with olive oil burn there day and night.
They are supplied with oil paid for out of the gifts deposited for the lighting of the thirty lamps.
There are about two hundred overseers appointed for the administration of the gifts deposited on this grave, who discharge their office one after the other.
From the money deposited on this grave, the synagogue requiring repair is repaired, orphans receive marriage portions, and destitute disciples are supported.
At Bagdad there are three synagogues, besides that built by Daniel on the spot on which the angel Stood on the brink of the river ; one Stands on each bank, as it is written in the book of Daniel.
Whilst Rabbi Petachia was at the grave of Ezekiel, he saw in the building a bird, the face of which was like that of a human being,21 at which the overseer adting as doorkeeper grieved, for he said, It is a tradition with us, from our fathers, that every house wherein such a bird is found will become a ruin.
But when the overseer observed that as the bird was going to quit the window it turned and died, he rejoiced greatly, for he said that since the bird was dead the doom was annulled.
The head of the academy told Rabbi Petachia that formerly a column of fire rested over the grave of Ezekiel, but that wicked persons and come and desecrated the grave ; for there had come about 80,000 individuals to the feast of Tabernacles, among whom were unworthy persons, and the column of fire had disappeared.
The taber-nacles are erected in the same enclosure, close to the burial ground.
The River Euphrates and the River Chebar22 join ; they can nevertheless, be distinguished.
On the other side of the River Euphrates, about a mile, 76
 opposite to the grave of Ezekiel, are the graves of Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah.
Each is separate.
Ezra, the scribe, is also buried there.
Rabbi Petachia then returned, and in two days went as far as Nehardea.
To go round that city takes about three days ; but everything is desolate.
There is a congregation in a portion of the city.
And when the rabbi produced the seal of the head of the academy they showed him the synagogue Shaf-Wyathib.23 Its three walls are of Stone, and the western wall is on the River Euphrates.
No portion of the wall is built of either Stone or brick, but consists entirely of the dust which Jeconiah brought with him.
The synagogue has no roof, for everything is desolate.
And the Jews told the rabbi that in the night they see a column of fire issue from it, extending as far as the grave of Brosak, before-mentioned.
He then returned and came to a city called Melia,24 where the grave of Rabbi Meir is, the same Rabbi Meir mentioned in the Mishna.
Before the town, by the water, is a field, and in that field is the grave.
And as the Euphrates, when it rose, overflowed the grave, they took the votive offerings of the Jews and Ishmaelites and built a city round his grave, with towers in the midst of the water.
There is a beautiful house over his grave, which the Ishmaelites call Chinuk (Choking). 
The reason thereof is that one day the sultan came and took away one of the Stones forming one of the Steps leading to his grave.
But in the night Rabbi Meir appeared to him in a dream, seized him by the throat as though he was going to choke him, saying to him, Why didst thou carry away my Stone ? Dost thou not know that I am righteous and beloved by God ? 
The sultan then begged the rabbi’s pardon.
But he replied : I will not pardon thee until thou carriest back the Stone on thy own shoulder, before the eyes of all, saying : I was wicked in robbing my lord the righteous.
In the morrow he carried the Stone on his shoulder and put it in its former place, saying : I was wicked in robbing my lord the righteous.
Therefore the Ishmaelites fear Rabbi Meir, worship on his grave, make him presents, and vow that if they should return in peace they would give him this or that.
Wherever Rabbi Petachia showed the seal of the head of the academy, men armed with spears came immediately forward and escorted him.
From the grave of Ezekiel to that of Baruch, son of Neriah, is a distance of a mile, and from the grave of Baruch, son of Neriah, to that of Nahum, the Elkoshite, is about four parasangs.
Between them, in the middle, is the grave of Abba Areka.
The length of his grave is eighteen cubits ; five of the Amoral'm 25 are buried there.
The mill which Raba had erected for the disciples is there, but it has no water.
In his days they ground corn in it.
There is a beautiful house over it.
They have a tradition whereby they know graves of prophets and Amoraim, סץץ in number, like the number of Sarim.
Where there exists a congregation near the grave of a righteous man, they spread a costly cloth over the grave, and when they remove thence they spread a mat over the grave on which there is no building.
Underneath most of the cloths or mats covering the graves a serpent is coiled, which guards the graves.
Therefore it is said : when thou raised the mat beware of the serpent.
The head of the academy wrote down for the rabbi the names of the Amorai'm buried there.
Rabbi Petachia, however, forgot the list (and left it) in Bohemia, for he came from Bohemia hither.
He related that ever since he set out from Bohemia he had travelled always eastward ; Bohemia being to the eastof Ratisbon, Russia to the eastof Poland.
Thence he went eastagain, and came in six days 78

to the grave of our lord Ezra, the scribe.
They said that in the days of old the grave of Ezra, the scribe, was in ruins.
Then there came once a shepherd, who saw a mound and slept on it.
One then appeared to him in a dream, saying to him, Tell the sultan I am Ezra, the scribe.
Let him have me taken up by men who are Jews, and have me placed in such and such a spot.
If not, all his people will die.
However, the sultan did not attend to the matter, and so many people died.
Whereupon the Jews were called upon, and they re-buried him with honour.
The grave was of marble Stone, and upon the marble was a tablet, upon which was engraven : “ I am Ezra, the scribe.” 
They buried him on the spot named to the shepherd and erected a fine Structure over his grave.
In the eleventh hour a column of fire ascends from his grave to the sky.
This continues during the eleventh and twelfth hour.
It is also seen in the first hour of the night.
People can walk three or four parasangs by the light of the pillar.
All the Ishmaelites worship there.
The keys of the houses over the graves are in the hands of the Jews.
They employ the proceeds of the votive offerings in giving marriage portions to orphans, supporting disciples, and repairing synagogues of the poor.
Before Rabbi Petachia set out for the grave of Ezra, the scribe, he spent eight days on a journey to Shushan, the former capital.
There are only two Jews there and they are dyers.
And he showed them the seal of the head of the academy, and they showed him the coffin of Daniel.
Originally Daniel was buried on one side of the river, and there was there great plenty, prosperity, and blessing.
Then those on the other side of the river said : because the righteous man is not buried in our portion therefore our district is not blessed.
And there were constantly great wars between the two districts, during which the coffin was violently transferred from bank to bank.
At last some elders came, who brought about a settlement between them, and they took the coffin and suspended it by iron chains on high iron pillars, erected in the middle of the river.
The coffin is made of polished copper, conspicuous in the middle of the river, ten cubits above the water.
At the distance it has the lustre of glass.
The Jews told him that any vessel passing underneath the coffin will proceed in safety if those in it be pious, but will founder if this be not the case.
He was further told that under-neath the coffin there are fish with golden pendants in their ears.
He, however, did not pass underneath the coffin, but stood on the brink of the river looking at the coffin־.
He then returned to Baghdad.
There he was shown a flying camel.26 It is low, and its legs are slender ; and if anybody wishes to ride on it he mud tie himself to it lest he should fall off.
The rider traverses in one day the ground over which a man on foot would have to take fifteen.
It would be possible to go even swifter if the rider could only stand it.
In one second the flying camel gallops a mile.
They also showed him the gates of Baghdad.
They are a hundred cubits high and ten cubits wide.
They are of polished copper and ornamented with figures so fashioned that no one can produce the like.
A nail once fell out and no artificer is able to fix it again.
Formerly the horses used to be startled back at the sight of the gates for, seeing the brightness of the gates, they perceived, as it were, other horses running towards them, whereby they took fright and started off.
They, therefore, poured boiling vinegar over the gates, and thus deadened the brightness of the polished copper, so that the horses should enter.
However, the polish of the copper is still partly to be perceived at the top, where no vinegar was poured.

These gates were once gates of Jerusalem.
The head of the academy has many servants.
They flog any one not immediately executing his orders ; therefore people fear him.
He, however, is righteous, humble, and full of knowledge of the law.
He is clothed in golden and coloured garments like the king ; his palace also is hung with costly tapestry like that of the king.
Rabbi Petachia travelled in two days from Baghdad to the boundary of Old Babylon.
The house of Nebuchadnezzar is all desolate.
Near his house is a pillar, and the house of Daniel looks as if it were new.
On the place where Daniel used to sit there is a Stone, and where his feet rested a marble Stone.
There is also a Stone at the top upon which the book lay out of which he used to write.
In the wall between the house of Daniel and that of Nebuchadnezzar is a small window through which he threw writings.
There are Steps below, upon which three pious sages used to sit before him.
On his right, by his seat, a Stone is fixed, and they declared that there was a tradition that there the vessels from the holy temple were hidden.
One day rulers who had heard of it came for the purpose of digging there but when they laid hold on the Stone they all fell down dead, therefore they removed nothing.
They then went from that room, and took the rabbi through the thickness of the wall to an upper room, wherein Daniel used to offer up his prayers.
The entrance is so inclined that it is exactly opposite Jerusalem, and so cunningly contrived that nobody could point out where it was.
He then returned.
He Stated that he did not see any woman whilst Staying in Babylon because they were all veiled and modest.
Everyone has a bath in his courtyard ; and no one offered up his prayer before he had bathed.
All travellers there travel in the night on account of the heat.
Everything 81	c
 grows there in winter as here in summer.
Most of their labours are performed during the night.
Babylon is, in faCt, quite a different world.
The Jews are devoted to the Study of the law and the fear of God.
The Ishmaelites also are trustworthy.
When a merchant arrives there he deposits his goods in a house and goes away.
The goods are then offered for sale in the market-places.
If the price demanded by the merchant is given, it is good.
If not, the goods are shown to all the brokers.
Should they become spoiled they are sold.
All this is done with honesty.
In Babylon there are thirty synagogues besides that of Daniel.
However, there is no minister there, and he whom the head of the academy bids to do so aCts as precentor.
It is done in this manner.
Some-one recites the hundred benedictions, and those present say Amen ; then someone recites the prayer of Baruch Sheamar with a loud voice, another rises and recites all the Praises and in this is joined by the whole congregation, his voice, however, being heard above them all, that they should not recite too fast, and they all follow him.
He recites the prayer of Yishtabach before Vayosha, and then goes on with the other prayers.
Thus the prayer is divided between several precentors.
No one talks to his neighbour at synagogue ; all Stand decorously, and they all appear at synagogue without shoes, barefooted.
If, whilst practising, they should be mistaken in a tune, the head of the academy gives them a sign with his finger ; they then understand what is the tune.
If there be any young man having a pleasing voice he recites a psalm.
On the half-holidays they recite the psalms to the accompaniment of musical instruments, and they know by tradition the appointed tunes.
For the Asor they have ten tunes, and for the Sheminith eight tunes ; they have several tunes for each psalm.
When Rabbi Petachia was in the
 room of Daniel they showed him a very deep lions den, and also a furnace half filled with water.
Who-ever is attacked by fever bathes therein and is healed.
Whilst at Baghdad he saw ambassadors from the kings of Meshech (Khozaria), Magog is about ten days’ journey thence.
The land extends as far as the Mountains of Darkness.
Beyond the Mountains of Darkness are the sons of Jonadab, son of Rechab.
To the seven kings of Meshech an angel appeared in a dream, bidding them to give up their laws and Statutes, and to embrace the law of Moses, son of Amram.
If not, he threatened to lay waste their country.
However, they delayed until the angel commenced to lay wasle their country, when the kings of Meshech and all the inhabitants of their countries became proselytes, and they sent to the head of the academy a request that he would despatch to them some disciples of the wise.
Every disciple of the wise that is poor goes there to teach them the law and Babylonian Talmud.
From the land of Egypt the disciples go there to Study.
The rabbi saw the ambassadors visit the grave of Ezekiel when they heard of the miracles and that they who prayed there were heard.
Rabbi Petachia said that the mountains of Ararat are five days’ journey from Babylon.
The mountains of Ararat are high.
There is one high mountain, behind which there are four others, two of which are opposite the two others.
The ark of Noah was carried between these mountains and could not get out.
However, the ark is not there, for it has decayed.
The mountains are full of thorns and other herbs ; when the dew falls, manna is rained down upon these, but when the sun shines warm the manna melts.
What-ever portion of it is gathered in the night, if it be kept, likewise melts.
They, therefore, carry off the manna together with the thorns and herbs on which it has
 fallen, and which they are obliged to cut off, so very hard are they.
The manna is white like snow.
How-ever, when boiled together with the manna they become sweeter than honey or any other sweet fluff.
Were it boiled without the nettles the limbs of the partaker thereof would become disjointed for excessive sweetness.
They look like small grains.
They gave the rabbi a few to tafle ; they melted in his mouth ; they were sweet ; penetrating into all his limbs, so that he could not bear the sweetness.
When Rabbi Petachia visited the grave of Ezekiel he saw the tower of the generation of the dispersed ; it is all fallen in, forming a high mountain, a mound for ever.
The king, who was contemporary with Rabbi Solomon, father of Rabbi Daniel, head of the captivity, and who saw the brightness ascending from the grave of Baruch, son of Neriah, and the beautiful and splendid praying scarf faintly visible between the marble flones, went afterwards to the city of Mecca, to the tomb of Mahomet; and behold there was a decayed and putrified corpse, from whose grave such a disagreeable smell arose that nobody could bear it.
He then said to his people that there was no good either in Mahomet or his religion, for they knew that the body of Baruch, son of Neriah, was preserved, that his praying scarf protruded from his tomb, that he was a disciple to a prophet, and that the Ishmaelites who dug up his grave perished whilfl, the Jews were not hurt ; and that, therefore, it might be known that the Jews hold by the law kept by Baruch, son of Neriah.
He, however, had not time to become a convert and convert his people before he died, and thus the resolution he had formed of converting all his people came to nought.
Ezra, the scribe, is buried on the boundary of the land of Babylon.27 When the pillar of fire is over his grave, the strudture eredted on it is not visible on account of the brightness over his grave.
Behind the upper chamber of Daniel is a beautiful pleasure garden, wherein the palm-trees, as well as his well, are still in existence.
Whoever of us dtays in the place some little time understands their language, for it is nearly all allied to ours, or the Targum : for inslance, derech becomes droch^ lechem^ lechom.
In the land of Ishmael the gold grows like herbs.
In the night its brightness is seen, when a mark is made with dust or lime.
They then come in the morning and gather the herbs upon which the gold is found.
Therefore, gold coins are found there, and they possess much gold.
Rabbi Petachia then turned west again, came back to Nineveh, and from Nineveh to Nisibis, where there is the synagogue which Ezra built ; upon the Stone is engraved “ Ezra, the Scribe.” He then went to Haran, and to Aram Naharaim (Mesopotamia), situate between two rivers.
At Nisibis there are about 800 Jews.
From thence he went to Hamath.
He named all the cities ; and Stated how many days it took him to travel from city to city.
However, there is no occasion to write it down.
From thence (he went) to Haleb 28 that is, Aram Zobah.
Why is it called Haleb ? Because on the mountain was the flock of Abraham our father.
Steps led down from the mountain, whence he was accustomed to hand milk to the poor.
From thence he went to Damascus.
This is a large city ; the King of Egypt rules over it.
There are about 10,000 Jews there, who have a prince.
The head of their academy is Rabbi Ezra, who is full of the knowledge of the law, for Rabbi Samuel, head of the academy of Babylon, ordained him.
Damascus has goodly lands ; it lies in the midst of gardens and pleasure grounds.
There are also high fountains from which the water pours, and many large pools.
The Ishmaelites say, If Paradise be on earth, then Damascus is the Paradise, and if it be in heaven, then Damascus lies opposite it on the earth.
Whosoever goes to Damascus sees Mount Seir in the vicinity, as also Mount Hermon and Mount Lebanon.
In the land of Sihon and Og there is neither grass nor plant; it is as though it had been made desolate, like Sodom and Gomorrah.
Rabbi Petachia saw a grave 80 cubits long.
He was told that it was the grave of Shem, son of Noah.
But the Jews did not tell him so.
From here it is about two days’ journey to Syria.
The Jordan passes through a cave, people said, from Pameas (Banias). The rabbi then came to Tiberias ; at which place there is a congregation, for there are also congregations in the land of Israel, numbering, however, only one hundred, two hundred, or three hundred families.
At Tiberias there is a synagogue which Joshua, son of Nun, built.
At Sepphoris there is buried our Holy Rabbi.29 A pleasing odour ascends from his grave.
This odour is smelt at the distance of a mile from his grave.
The graves in the land of Israel are in hollows, but not those of Babylon.
For in Babylon water appears and, therefore, they cannot dig deep caves.
Of the posterity of Rabbi Judah a descendant exists, whose name is Rabbi Nehorai.
He has a son whose name is Judah, after Rabbi Judah, the prince.
He possesses a book of genealogy going back to Rabbi Judah.
Rabbi Nehorai is a physician and sells spices in the market.
His children are with him in the shop.
They are kept secluded that they may not look about.
He is a disciple of the wise and righteous.
Tiberias, Sepphoris, and all the cities in the plain belong to Lower Galilee.
The rabbi also saw Usha and Shifrem, where Rabbi Gamaliel lived at the seat of the Sanhedrin.
There are Jews at Acre.
At Jabneh there is a spring which flows for six days of the week, but on the Sabbath not a single drop is found in it.
In Lower Galilee there is a cave which is spacious and high within.
On one side of the cave are buried Shammai and his disciples ; and on the other Hillel and his disciples.
In the middle of the cave there is a large stone, hollow like a cup, which is capable of containing more than forty seah.
When worthy men enter, the stone appears full of sweet water ; these may then wash hands and feet, and pray, imploring God for what they desire.
The &one, however, is not hollowed out right through, for the water does not come up from beneath; it only appears in honour of a man who is worthy, and to an unworthy man the water does not appear.
Though men were to draw from the stone a thousand jugs of water its quantity would not be diminished, but it would remain full as before.
Rabbi Petachia then went to Upper Galilee and Stayed among the mountains.
Nittai, the Arbelite, is buried there at Arbela.
Har Gaash is very high; on it Obadiah, the prophet, is buried.
The mountain is ascended by means of Steps formed in it.
In the midst of the mountain Joshua, son of Nun, is buried, and by his side Caleb, son of Jephunneh.
Close by, a spring of good water gushes from the mountains ; there are beautiful palaces eredted near the graves.
Every building in the land of Israel is of Stone.
Near one of the palaces a foot-print is perceptible, like that of a human being treading on snow.
This is that which the angel imprinted after the death of Joshua, son of Nun, when the land of Israel was shaken.
Rabbi Petachia said that a compass round the whole land of Israel might be made in three days.
From thence he went to the grave of Jonah, son of Amittai.
There is a beautiful palace built over it.
Near it is a pleasure garden, wherein all kinds of fruit are found.
The keeper of the pleasure garden is a Gentile.
Nevertheless, when Gentiles come there he gives them no fruit, but when Jews come he gives them a friendly reception, saying Jonah, son of Amittai, was a Jew, therefore, it is due to you to partake of what is his, and then gives to the Jews to eat thereof.
The rabbi then came to Rachel’s grave, at Ephrath, half a day’s journey from Jerusalem.
Upon her grave are eleven atones, according to the number of the eleven tribes ; and because Benjamin was only born at her death there is no Stone erected for him.
They are of marble.
The Stone of Jacob, however, consisting of one piece of marble, above all of them, is very large, a load for many persons.
A mile from hence are the priests who took away the large Stone from the grave and placed it in a building for Strange service.30 In the morning, however, it was seen on the grave as before.
This was repeated several times, until at last they abstained from carrying it away.
On the Stone is engraved the name of Jacob.
He also saw the Stone over the well near Haran.
Forty persons could not move it from its place.
The well is about thirty cubits deep; there is, however, no water in it.
Rabbi Petachia then went to Jerusalem.
The only Jew there is Rabbi Abraham, the dyer, and he pays a heavy tax to the king to be permitted to remain there.
They showed him Mount Olivet, and he saw that the pavement was three cubits high, which is the breadth thereof.
There is also a beautiful palace which the Ishmaelites built in ancient times when Jerusalem was Still in the hands of the Ishmaelites.
Then came worthless persons who brought to the king of the Ishmaelites a slanderous report, saying : there is an old man among us who knows the locality of the temple and the court.
Then the king grew urgent with that old man until he pointed it out.
The king was a friend of the Jews, and said : I will build here a temple, and none but Jews shall pray 88 therein.
He built the temple of marble Stone, a beautiful Structure consisting of red, green, and variegated marble.
Then came Gentiles and put images in it, but they fell down.
They then fixed the images in the thickness of the wall, but in the Holy of Holies they could not place any.
The hospice where the poor are is on another side.
The ground is cleft, and is called Valley of the Son of Hinnom, where their burial-place is.
The circuit of the land of Israel may be made in about three days.
The rabbi saw the Salt Sea of Sodom and Gomorrah.
There is no herb there.
As to the pillar of salt, he said that he did not see it and that it no longer existed.
Nor did he see the Stones which Joshua erefted.
He then went to Hebron.
He saw over the cave a large palace, which Abraham, our father, built.
There are in it large Stones of twenty-seven or twenty-eight cubits.
Every corner Stone is about seventy cubits.
He gave to the keeper of the key of the cave a gold piece to take him to the graves of the fathers ; and the keeper opened the door, and behold there was over the entrance an image,31 and inside three cells.
The Jews of Acre had told him previously : beware, for they have placed three corpses at the entrance of the cave and say that these were the patriarchs, but they are not.
But the keeper of the cave said that they were.
The rabbi, therefore, gave him another gold piece to take him inside the cave.
The keeper then opened the (inner) door, saying, I never permitted a Gentile before to enter this doorway.
The keeper then brought lights and they went inside and had to descend Steps ; before they entered the inner cave they had to descend fifteen Steps outside it.
They then came to a very spacious cave.
In the midst of the cave there is an entrance in the ground.
The ground consists all of rock, and all the graves 
89 are in the hollow of the rock ; and over that entrance, in the middle, are placed very thick iron bars, the like no man can make by earthly means but with heavenly help only.
And a Storm-wind blows from between the holes between bar and bar.
He could not enter there with lights.
Then he understood that the fathers were there and he prayed there.
Whenever he bent towards the mouth of the cave a Storm-wind went forth and cast him backwards.
At Jerusalem there is a gate : its name is Gate of Mercy.
The gate is piled up with Stone and lime.
No Jew is permitted to go there, and Still less a Gentile.
One day the Gentiles wished to remove the rubbish and open the gate, but the whole land of Israel shook and there was a tumult in the city until they abstained.
There is a tradition amongst the Jews that the Divine glory appeared through this gate and through it would return.
It is exactly opposite Mount Olivet.
Mount Olivet is lower in height.
Nevertheless, whoever Stands on that mountain may see it.
His feet will Stand that day on Mount Olivet.32 They shall see distinctly when the Eternal will return to Zion through that gate.
Prayers are offered up there.
The Tower of David Still exists.
At Damascus there is a synagogue which Elisha built, also one built by Rabbi Eleazar, son of Azariah.
It is large, and divine service is performed in it.
Among the oaks of Mamre, at a distance from there, dwelt an old man, who was near death when Rabbi Petachia arrived there, and he told his son to show Rabbi Petachia the tree under which the angels rested.
He also showed him a fine olive-tree cleft into three parts with a Stone in the middle.
They have a tradition that when the angels sat down the tree was cleft into three parts, each resting under one part whilst sitting on the Stone.
The fruits of the tree are very sweet.
By the tree is the well of 90 Sarah ; its waters are clear and sweet.
By the well is the tent of Sarah.
Close by Mamre is a plain, and on the other side it is about a hundred cubits from the well of Sarah to the well of Abraham ; its water is very agreeable.
They also showed him a stone of twenty-eight cubits upon which Abraham, our father, was circumcised.
The old man affirmed with an oath, now that he was quitting the world and would not utter a falsehood, but that one day, on the fast of the Day of Atonement, he had seen a fiery angel who was offering up his devotions and a fiery horse by the well of Sarah.
In Greece the Jews are subject to great oppression ; and even compelled to perform menial work in their own persons.
There are youths among them who are expert in the use of the Divine name and can conjure evil spirits, but who are compelled to serve the Greeks like slaves.
There are so many congregations in Greece, that the land of Israel could not contain them were they settled therein.
In the village of Usha is buried Jonah, son of Amittai ; in that of Bosra, of Babylon, is buried Ezra, the scribe.
Rabbi Chana, the Baghdadi, who is mentioned in the Talmud, was of Baghdad, the great city mentioned before.
At Babylon there are no atones, but everything is of brick.
End of the words of Rabbi Petachia, brother of Rabbi Isaac, Halavan, author of the Tosephoth, and of Rabbi Nachman, of Ratisbon.